README.md, before:


# Step-by-Step Guide to Determining Application Sizes on Mac via Terminal (zsh)

This guide helps you determine the size of all installed applications, programs, and packages on your Mac. You will create a shell script that searches various sources and compiles the results into a sorted file.

**Important:** This process can take up to 1 hour, as it first calculates all sizes and then sorts them.

## Table of Contents
- Step 1: Create the Script with nano
- Step 2: Add Script Content
- Step 3: Make the Script Executable
- Step 4: Install Necessary Dependencies
- Step 5: Run the Script
- Step 6: Verify the Results
- License

## Step 1: Create the Script with nano
Open the Terminal and create a new script file using nano:

```zsh
nano ~/application_size_checker.sh
```

## Step 2: Add Script Content
Copy the following content and paste it into the nano editor:

```zsh
#!/bin/zsh

# Define output file
OUTPUT=~/Desktop/application_size_sorted.txt
echo "Determining application sizes on your Mac" > $OUTPUT
echo "Created on: $(date)" >> $OUTPUT
echo "--------------------------------------------" >> $OUTPUT

# Function to add sections
add_section() {
    echo -e "
$1" >> $OUTPUT
    echo "--------------------------------------------" >> $OUTPUT
    shift
    for line in "$@"; do
        echo "$line" >> $OUTPUT
    done
}

# 1. Homebrew Formulas
brew list --formula | parallel -j4 '
    formula_path=$(brew --prefix {})
    if [ -d "$formula_path" ]; then
        size=$(du -sh "$formula_path" 2>/dev/null | awk "{print "{}: "$1}")
    else
        size="{}: Path not found"
    fi
    echo "$size"
' | sort -hr > brew_formula_sizes.txt

brew_formula_sizes=$(cat brew_formula_sizes.txt)
add_section "Homebrew Formulas:" "${(@f)brew_formula_sizes}"

# 2. Homebrew Casks
brew list --cask | parallel -j4 '
    app_path="/Applications/{}.app"
    if [ -d "$app_path" ]; then
        size=$(du -sh "$app_path" 2>/dev/null | awk "{print "{}: "$1}")
    else
        # Alternative paths for Casks
        app_path="$(brew --prefix)/Caskroom/{}/latest/{}.app"
        if [ -d "$app_path" ]; then
            size=$(du -sh "$app_path" 2>/dev/null | awk "{print "{}: "$1}")
        else
            size="{}: Application not found"
        fi
    fi
    echo "$size"
' | sort -hr > brew_cask_sizes.txt

brew_cask_sizes=$(cat brew_cask_sizes.txt)
add_section "Homebrew Casks:" "${(@f)brew_cask_sizes}"

# 3. Applications in /Applications Folder
ls /Applications | grep ".app" | parallel -j4 '
    size=$(du -sh "/Applications/{}" 2>/dev/null | awk "{print "{}: "$1}")
    echo "$size"
' | sort -hr > applications_sizes.txt

applications_sizes=$(cat applications_sizes.txt)
add_section "Applications in /Applications Folder:" "${(@f)applications_sizes}"

# 4. Applications in ~/Applications Folder
if [ -d ~/Applications ]; then
    ls ~/Applications | grep ".app" | parallel -j4 '
        size=$(du -sh "~/Applications/{}" 2>/dev/null | awk "{print "{}: "$1}")
        echo "$size"
    ' | sort -hr > user_applications_sizes.txt
    user_applications_sizes=$(cat user_applications_sizes.txt)
else
    user_applications_sizes="No user-specific applications found."
fi

add_section "Applications in ~/Applications Folder:" "${(@f)user_applications_sizes}"

# 5. Applications Found via sudo find
# Warning: This step can take a long time
echo "Determining sizes of applications found via sudo find... (this may take some time)" >> $OUTPUT
found_apps_sizes=$(sudo find / -iname "*.app" -type d 2>/dev/null | parallel -j4 '
    app_name=$(basename "{}")
    size=$(du -sh "{}" 2>/dev/null | awk "{print "${app_name}: "$1}")
    echo "$size"
' | sort -hr)

add_section "Applications Found via sudo find:" "${(@f)found_apps_sizes}"

# 6. Packages Installed via pkgutil
pkgutil --pkgs | parallel -j4 '
    pkg_info=$(pkgutil --pkg-info "{}" 2>/dev/null)
    if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
        install_location=$(echo "$pkg_info" | grep "volume:" | awk "{print \$2}")
        if [ -d "$install_location" ]; then
            size=$(du -sh "$install_location" 2>/dev/null | awk "{print "{}: "$1}")
        else
            size="{}: Installation location not found"
        fi
    else
        size="{}: Information not available"
    fi
    echo "$size"
' | sort -hr > pkgutil_pkgs_sizes.txt

pkgutil_pkgs_sizes=$(cat pkgutil_pkgs_sizes.txt)
add_section "Packages Installed via pkgutil:" "${(@f)pkgutil_pkgs_sizes}"

# 7. Applications Listed via system_profiler
system_profiler SPApplicationsDataType -json | jq -r '.SPApplicationsDataType[] | "\(.name): \(.size)"' | sort -hr > system_profiler_apps_sizes.txt
system_profiler_apps_sizes=$(cat system_profiler_apps_sizes.txt)
add_section "Applications Listed via system_profiler:" "${(@f)system_profiler_apps_sizes}"

# Completion message
echo "The sizes of the applications have been saved to $OUTPUT."
```

Save and Exit the Editor:

    Press `Ctrl + O` and then `Enter` to save the file.
    Press `Ctrl + X` to exit the editor.

## Step 3: Make the Script Executable

Make the script executable by running the following command in the Terminal:

```zsh
chmod +x ~/application_size_checker.sh
```

## Step 4: Install Necessary Dependencies

For processing the JSON output from `system_profiler`, we use `jq`. Ensure it is installed by running:

```zsh
brew install jq
```

Additionally, ensure that `parallel` is installed. If not, install it with:

```zsh
brew install parallel
```

If you don't have Homebrew installed, you can install it by following the instructions at [https://brew.sh/](https://brew.sh/).

## Step 5: Run the Script

Execute the script by running:

```zsh
~/application_size_checker.sh
```

## Step 6: Verify the Results

After the script has finished running, you will find a file named `application_size_sorted.txt` on your Desktop. This file contains a complete list of all detected applications and packages with their respective sizes, sorted in descending order.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Add Dependencies and Suppressing GNU Parallel Citation Notices sections to README

README.md, after:


# Step-by-Step Guide to Determining Application Sizes on Mac via Terminal (zsh)

This guide helps you determine the size of all installed applications, programs, and packages on your Mac. You will create a shell script that searches various sources and compiles the results into a sorted file.

**Important:** This process can take up to 1 hour, as it first calculates all sizes and then sorts them.

## Table of Contents
- Step 1: Create the Script with nano
- Step 2: Add Script Content
- Step 3: Make the Script Executable
- Step 4: Install Necessary Dependencies
- Step 5: Run the Script
- Step 6: Verify the Results
- Dependencies
- Suppressing GNU Parallel Citation Notices
- License

## Step 1: Create the Script with nano
Open the Terminal and create a new script file using nano:

```zsh
nano ~/application_size_checker.sh
```

## Step 2: Add Script Content
Copy the following content and paste it into the nano editor:

```zsh
#!/bin/zsh

# Define output file
OUTPUT=~/Desktop/application_size_sorted.txt
echo "Determining application sizes on your Mac" > $OUTPUT
echo "Created on: $(date)" >> $OUTPUT
echo "--------------------------------------------" >> $OUTPUT

# Function to add sections
add_section() {
    echo -e "
$1" >> $OUTPUT
    echo "--------------------------------------------" >> $OUTPUT
    shift
    for line in "$@"; do
        echo "$line" >> $OUTPUT
    done
}

# 1. Homebrew Formulas
brew list --formula | parallel -j4 '
    formula_path=$(brew --prefix {})
    if [ -d "$formula_path" ]; then
        size=$(du -sh "$formula_path" 2>/dev/null | awk "{print "{}: "$1}")
    else
        size="{}: Path not found"
    fi
    echo "$size"
' | sort -hr > brew_formula_sizes.txt

brew_formula_sizes=$(cat brew_formula_sizes.txt)
add_section "Homebrew Formulas:" "${(@f)brew_formula_sizes}"

# 2. Homebrew Casks
brew list --cask | parallel -j4 '
    app_path="/Applications/{}.app"
    if [ -d "$app_path" ]; then
        size=$(du -sh "$app_path" 2>/dev/null | awk "{print "{}: "$1}")
    else
        # Alternative paths for Casks
        app_path="$(brew --prefix)/Caskroom/{}/latest/{}.app"
        if [ -d "$app_path" ]; then
            size=$(du -sh "$app_path" 2>/dev/null | awk "{print "{}: "$1}")
        else
            size="{}: Application not found"
        fi
    fi
    echo "$size"
' | sort -hr > brew_cask_sizes.txt

brew_cask_sizes=$(cat brew_cask_sizes.txt)
add_section "Homebrew Casks:" "${(@f)brew_cask_sizes}"

# 3. Applications in /Applications Folder
ls /Applications | grep ".app" | parallel -j4 '
    size=$(du -sh "/Applications/{}" 2>/dev/null | awk "{print "{}: "$1}")
    echo "$size"
' | sort -hr > applications_sizes.txt

applications_sizes=$(cat applications_sizes.txt)
add_section "Applications in /Applications Folder:" "${(@f)applications_sizes}"

# 4. Applications in ~/Applications Folder
if [ -d ~/Applications ]; then
    ls ~/Applications | grep ".app" | parallel -j4 '
        size=$(du -sh "~/Applications/{}" 2>/dev/null | awk "{print "{}: "$1}")
        echo "$size"
    ' | sort -hr > user_applications_sizes.txt
    user_applications_sizes=$(cat user_applications_sizes.txt)
else
    user_applications_sizes="No user-specific applications found."
fi

add_section "Applications in ~/Applications Folder:" "${(@f)user_applications_sizes}"

# 5. Applications Found via sudo find
# Warning: This step can take a long time
echo "Determining sizes of applications found via sudo find... (this may take some time)" >> $OUTPUT
found_apps_sizes=$(sudo find / -iname "*.app" -type d 2>/dev/null | parallel -j4 '
    app_name=$(basename "{}")
    size=$(du -sh "{}" 2>/dev/null | awk "{print "${app_name}: "$1}")
    echo "$size"
' | sort -hr)

add_section "Applications Found via sudo find:" "${(@f)found_apps_sizes}"

# 6. Packages Installed via pkgutil
pkgutil --pkgs | parallel -j4 '
    pkg_info=$(pkgutil --pkg-info "{}" 2>/dev/null)
    if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
        install_location=$(echo "$pkg_info" | grep "volume:" | awk "{print \$2}")
        if [ -d "$install_location" ]; then
            size=$(du -sh "$install_location" 2>/dev/null | awk "{print "{}: "$1}")
        else
            size="{}: Installation location not found"
        fi
    else
        size="{}: Information not available"
    fi
    echo "$size"
' | sort -hr > pkgutil_pkgs_sizes.txt

pkgutil_pkgs_sizes=$(cat pkgutil_pkgs_sizes.txt)
add_section "Packages Installed via pkgutil:" "${(@f)pkgutil_pkgs_sizes}"

# 7. Applications Listed via system_profiler
system_profiler SPApplicationsDataType -json | jq -r '.SPApplicationsDataType[] | "\(.name): \(.size)"' | sort -hr > system_profiler_apps_sizes.txt
system_profiler_apps_sizes=$(cat system_profiler_apps_sizes.txt)
add_section "Applications Listed via system_profiler:" "${(@f)system_profiler_apps_sizes}"

# Completion message
echo "The sizes of the applications have been saved to $OUTPUT."
```

Save and Exit the Editor:

    Press `Ctrl + O` and then `Enter` to save the file.
    Press `Ctrl + X` to exit the editor.

## Step 3: Make the Script Executable

Make the script executable by running the following command in the Terminal:

```zsh
chmod +x ~/application_size_checker.sh
```

## Step 4: Install Necessary Dependencies

For processing the JSON output from `system_profiler`, we use `jq`. Ensure it is installed by running:

```zsh
brew install jq
```

Additionally, ensure that `parallel` is installed. If not, install it with:

```zsh
brew install parallel
```

If you don't have Homebrew installed, you can install it by following the instructions at [https://brew.sh/](https://brew.sh/).

## Step 5: Run the Script

Execute the script by running:

```zsh
~/application_size_checker.sh
```

## Step 6: Verify the Results

After the script has finished running, you will find a file named `application_size_sorted.txt` on your Desktop. This file contains a complete list of all detected applications and packages with their respective sizes, sorted in descending order.

## Dependencies

This script utilizes the following tools:

- **GNU Parallel:** A shell tool for executing jobs in parallel. [https://www.gnu.org/software/parallel/](https://www.gnu.org/software/parallel/)
- **jq:** A lightweight and flexible command-line JSON processor. [https://stedolan.github.io/jq/](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/)
- **Homebrew:** A package manager for macOS. [https://brew.sh/](https://brew.sh/)

**Note:** Ensure these dependencies are installed before running the script.

## Suppressing GNU Parallel Citation Notices

When running the script for the first time, you might encounter citation notices from GNU Parallel. To suppress these messages, execute the following command in your Terminal:

```zsh
parallel --citation
```

Note: This command only needs to be run once.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.
